SMMSmith Machine Incline Bench Press
Set up the Smith machine so that the barbell is at a height that allows you to comfortably grip it while lying on an inclined bench. Lie down on the bench and position yourself so that your feet are flat on the floor and your head is positioned directly under the barbell. Grab the barbell with a slightly wider than shoulder-width grip and lift it off the rack. Hold the barbell with your arms extended above your chest. Slowly lower the barbell down towards your chest while keeping your elbows close to your body. Pause for a second when the barbell touches your chest, and then push it back up towards the starting position.
CMMCable Iron Crosses
Adjust the cable machine: Set up the cable machine with two high-pulleys and attach stirrup handles to each one. Adjust the pulleys so that they're at the highest setting. Position yourself: Stand in the center of the cable machine with your feet shoulder-width apart. Hold one handle in each hand with an overhand grip. Engage your core: Brace your core muscles and maintain a stable stance throughout the exercise. Bring your arms down: Extend your arms out to your sides until they're parallel to the ground. Cross the cables: Keeping your arms straight, slowly bring the cable handles together in front of your body, crossing them over one another. Contract your chest: Pause for a moment when the handles meet in front of your body, then slowly return them to the starting position with control.
MFMMachine Fly
Adjust the machine: Start by adjusting the machine so that the handles are level with your chest. Adjust the seat so that you can comfortably reach the handles. Sit on the machine: Sit on the machine with your back pressed against the backrest. Your feet should be flat on the ground, shoulder-width apart. Grasp the handles: Grasp the handles with your palms facing inward. Keep your elbows slightly bent. Pull the handles together: Exhale and slowly pull the handles together in front of your chest, making sure to keep your elbows slightly bent. Pause: Pause for a moment when the handles are in front of your chest, feeling the contraction in your chest muscles. Return to starting position: Inhale and slowly return to the starting position, keeping your elbows slightly bent.
BBBarbell Flat Bench Press
Lie on your back on a flat bench. Grip a barbell with hands slightly wider than shoulder width. The bar should be directly over the shoulders. Press your feet firmly into the ground and keep your hips on the bench throughout the entire movement. Keep your core engaged and maintain a neutral spine position throughout the movement. Avoid arching your back. Slowly lift the bar or dumbbells off the rack, if using. Lower the bar to the chest, about nipple level, allowing elbows to bend out to the side, about 45 degrees away from the body. Stop lowering when your elbows are just below the bench. Press feet into the floor as you push the bar back up to return to starting position.
DBDumbbell Bench Press
Lie on your back on a flat bench. Grip a dumbbell with hands slightly wider than shoulder width. The bar should be directly over the shoulders. Press your feet firmly into the ground and keep your hips on the bench throughout the entire movement. Keep your core engaged and maintain a neutral spine position throughout the movement. Avoid arching your back. Slowly lift the bar or dumbbells off the rack, if using. Lower the bar to the chest, about nipple level, allowing elbows to bend out to the side, about 45 degrees away from the body. Stop lowering when your elbows are just below the bench. Press feet into the floor as you push the bar back up to return to starting position.
DBDumbbell Floor Press
Begin sitting on the floor in an upright position with your legs straight and the dumbbells vertically balanced on the floor. Pick up each dumbbell and set it high in your hip crease while maintaining a tight grip. Slowly lay back while keeping the dumbbells close to your chest and bend your knees to roughly 45 degrees and move your feet up slightly. Press the weights to full extension by contracting your triceps and chest. Slowly lower the weight until both elbows touch the floor then press both dumbbells back to the starting position.
BBBarbell Incline Bench Press
Place feet flat on the floor as you lean back slightly, so your back rests against the bench with a neutral spine. Start by holding dumbbells or a barbell directly over the shoulders. Face your palms forward, with the thumb wrapped around the handle. Press the weight upward over your eyes or slightly higher, with elbows extended to 45 degrees. Inhale and lower dumbbells or barbell slowly and with control until they touch or reach just above the chest, elbows and wrists staying out to the sides.
DBDumbbell Incline Bench Press
Pick up the dumbbells off the floor using a neutral grip (palms facing in). Position the ends of the dumbbells in your hip crease, and sit down on the edge of an incline bench. To get into position, lay back and keep the weights close to your chest. Once you are in position, take a deep breath, and press the dumbbells to lockout at the top. Slowly lower the dumbbells under control as far as comfortably possible (the handles should be about level with your chest). Contract the chest and push the dumbbells back up to the starting position.
KBKettlebell Incline Bench Press
Set up an incline bench at a 45-degree angle and sit on the bench with your back in contact with the backrest. Keep your feet flat on the ground and your core engaged. Hold a kettlebell in each hand with your palms facing forward and the kettlebells resting on your thighs. Slowly lie back on the bench, bringing the kettlebells up to your chest with your elbows bent and tucked in. Take a deep breath and brace your core. Press the kettlebells up over your chest, extending your arms fully. Lower the kettlebells back down to your chest, keeping your elbows tucked in and maintaining control throughout the movement.
BBBarbell Decline Bench Press
Lie faceup on a decline bench, with your feet anchored and back in contact with the bench. Maintain a neutral head and neck position, and tuck your chin slightly. Engage your core and keep your upper back tight and stable. Grab the barbell with a wide grip, rotate your shoulders outward, and lift the bar off the uprights. Lower the barbell towards your lower chest by bending your elbows. Lift the barbell back up by straightening your elbows and squeezing your chest and triceps at the top.
DBDumbbell Decline Bench Press
Tuck your feet firmly between the pads, with each dumbbell on your knees. Lie back on the bench and bring the dumbbells back to your chest and push up as you lay down. Squeeze your shoulder blades by pinching them together and driving them into the bench and slightly arch your back. Make sure your palms are rotated completely under the dumbbells, squeezing them tight. As you descend, follow your bend your elbows at a parallel 90 degrees, then push back up bringing the dumbbells together, while still keeping a slight bend in your elbows, not locking out.
KBKettlebell Decline Bench Press
Set up a decline bench at a 45-degree angle and lie faceup on the bench. Secure your feet under the foot roller pads and keep your back in contact with the bench. Hold a kettlebell in each hand with your palms facing forward and the kettlebells resting on your chest. Engage your core and press the kettlebells up over your chest, extending your arms fully. Slowly lower the kettlebells back down to your chest, keeping your elbows tucked in and maintaining control throughout the movement. Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
DBChest Flye
Lie flat on your back on a flat incline bench. Place your feet firmly on the floor on either side of the bench. Your head and back should remain firmly pressed into the bench throughout the exercise. Ask a spotter to hand you the 2 dumbbells, or gently pick them up from the floor and hold 1 in each hand. Lift arms up above the head so they’re extended but not locked out. There should be a slight bend at your elbow, and your palms and dumbbells should be facing each other. Inhale and slowly lower dumbbells in an arc motion until they’re in line with the chest. Your arms will be extended to the sides but not locked out. Don’t drop your arms lower than your shoulders. Exhale and slowly press the dumbbells up in the same arc motion.
BBSide-to-Side Landmine Press
Set up a landmine station by inserting one end of a barbell into a landmine attachment or placing the barbell in a corner. Load weight plates onto the opposite end of the barbell. Stand next to the barbell with your feet shoulder-width apart and your knees slightly bent. Grip the barbell with one hand, keeping your palm facing your body and your elbow tucked in at your side. Press the barbell up and away from your body at a slight angle, extending your arm fully. Slowly lower the barbell back down to your starting position. Repeat the movement with the other hand, pressing the barbell up and away from your body at a slight angle and then lowering it back down to your starting position. Continue alternating between sides for the desired number of repetitions.
DBIncline Dumbbell Hex Press
Set up an incline bench at a 45-degree angle and sit on the bench with your back in contact with the backrest. Keep your feet flat on the ground and your core engaged. Hold a pair of dumbbells with your palms facing each other and your arms extended directly over your chest. Slowly lower the dumbbells down to the center of your chest, keeping your elbows tucked in and maintaining control throughout the movement. Pause briefly at the bottom of the movement, then press the dumbbells back up over your chest, extending your arms fully. Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
